DOCS.md, before:

---
date: 2017-06-10T00:00:00+00:00
title: Discord
author: appleboy
tags: [ notifications, chat ]
repo: appleboy/drone-discord
logo: discord.svg
image: appleboy/drone-discord
---

Webhooks are a low-effort way to post messages to channels in Discord. They do not require a bot user or authentication to use.

The discord plugin posts build status messages to discord channel. The below pipeline configuration demonstrates simple usage:

```yaml
pipeline:
  discord:
    image: appleboy/drone-discord
    webhook_id: xxxxxxxxxx
    webhook_token: xxxxxxxxxx
    content: "Testing from drone image"
```

Example configuration with TTS message:

```diff
pipeline:
  discord:
    image: appleboy/drone-discord
    webhook_id: xxxxxxxxxx
    webhook_token: xxxxxxxxxx
+   tts: true
    content: "Testing from drone image"
```

Example configuration with override the default username of the webhook:

```diff
pipeline:
  discord:
    image: appleboy/drone-discord
    webhook_id: xxxxxxxxxx
    webhook_token: xxxxxxxxxx
+   username: appleboy
    content: "Testing from drone image"
```

Example configuration with override the default avatar of the webhook:

```diff
pipeline:
  discord:
    image: appleboy/drone-discord
    webhook_id: xxxxxxxxxx
    webhook_token: xxxxxxxxxx
+   avatar_url: http://exampple.com/appleboy.png
    content: "Testing from drone image"
```

Example configuration with a custom message template:

```diff
pipeline:
  facebook:
    image: appleboy/drone-discord
    webhook_id: xxxxxxxxxx
    webhook_token: xxxxxxxxxx
+   content: |
+     {{ #success build.status }}
+       build {{ build.number }} succeeded. Good job.
+     {{ else }}
+       build {{ build.number }} failed. Fix me please.
+     {{ /success }}
```

# Parameter Reference

webhook_id
: webhook id

webhook_token
: webhook token

avatar_url
: override the default avatar of the webhook

username
: override the default username of the webhook

tts
: true if this is a TTS message

content
: the message contents (up to 2000 characters)

# Template Reference

repo.owner
: repository owner

repo.name
: repository name

build.status
: build status type enumeration, either `success` or `failure`

build.event
: build event type enumeration, one of `push`, `pull_request`, `tag`, `deployment`

build.number
: build number

build.commit
: git sha for current commit

build.branch
: git branch for current commit

build.tag
: git tag for current commit

build.ref
: git ref for current commit

build.author
: git author for current commit

build.link
: link the the build results in drone

build.started
: unix timestamp for build started

build.finished
: unix timestamp for build finished

# Template Function Reference

uppercasefirst
: converts the first letter of a string to uppercase

uppercase
: converts a string to uppercase

lowercase
: converts a string to lowercase. Example `{{lowercase build.author}}`

datetime
: converts a unix timestamp to a date time string. Example `{{datetime build.started}}`

success
: returns true if the build is successful

failure
: returns true if the build is failed

truncate
: returns a truncated string to n characters. Example `{{truncate build.sha 8}}`

urlencode
: returns a url encoded string

since
: returns a duration string between now and the given timestamp. Example `{{since build.started}}`

Commit message:

rename `content` to `message`
Signed-off-by: Bo-Yi Wu <appleboy.tw@gmail.com>

DOCS.md, after:

---
date: 2017-06-10T00:00:00+00:00
title: Discord
author: appleboy
tags: [ notifications, chat ]
repo: appleboy/drone-discord
logo: discord.svg
image: appleboy/drone-discord
---

Webhooks are a low-effort way to post messages to channels in Discord. They do not require a bot user or authentication to use.

The discord plugin posts build status messages to discord channel. The below pipeline configuration demonstrates simple usage:

```yaml
pipeline:
  discord:
    image: appleboy/drone-discord
    webhook_id: xxxxxxxxxx
    webhook_token: xxxxxxxxxx
    message: "Testing from drone image"
```

Example configuration with TTS message:

```diff
pipeline:
  discord:
    image: appleboy/drone-discord
    webhook_id: xxxxxxxxxx
    webhook_token: xxxxxxxxxx
+   tts: true
    message: "Testing from drone image"
```

Example configuration with override the default username of the webhook:

```diff
pipeline:
  discord:
    image: appleboy/drone-discord
    webhook_id: xxxxxxxxxx
    webhook_token: xxxxxxxxxx
+   username: appleboy
    message: "Testing from drone image"
```

Example configuration with override the default avatar of the webhook:

```diff
pipeline:
  discord:
    image: appleboy/drone-discord
    webhook_id: xxxxxxxxxx
    webhook_token: xxxxxxxxxx
+   avatar_url: http://exampple.com/appleboy.png
    message: "Testing from drone image"
```

Example configuration with a custom message template:

```diff
pipeline:
  facebook:
    image: appleboy/drone-discord
    webhook_id: xxxxxxxxxx
    webhook_token: xxxxxxxxxx
+   messageq: |
+     {{ #success build.status }}
+       build {{ build.number }} succeeded. Good job.
+     {{ else }}
+       build {{ build.number }} failed. Fix me please.
+     {{ /success }}
```

# Parameter Reference

webhook_id
: webhook id

webhook_token
: webhook token

avatar_url
: override the default avatar of the webhook

username
: override the default username of the webhook

tts
: true if this is a TTS message

message
: the message contents (up to 2000 characters)

# Template Reference

repo.owner
: repository owner

repo.name
: repository name

build.status
: build status type enumeration, either `success` or `failure`

build.event
: build event type enumeration, one of `push`, `pull_request`, `tag`, `deployment`

build.number
: build number

build.commit
: git sha for current commit

build.branch
: git branch for current commit

build.tag
: git tag for current commit

build.ref
: git ref for current commit

build.author
: git author for current commit

build.link
: link the the build results in drone

build.started
: unix timestamp for build started

build.finished
: unix timestamp for build finished

# Template Function Reference

uppercasefirst
: converts the first letter of a string to uppercase

uppercase
: converts a string to uppercase

lowercase
: converts a string to lowercase. Example `{{lowercase build.author}}`

datetime
: converts a unix timestamp to a date time string. Example `{{datetime build.started}}`

success
: returns true if the build is successful

failure
: returns true if the build is failed

truncate
: returns a truncated string to n characters. Example `{{truncate build.sha 8}}`

urlencode
: returns a url encoded string

since
: returns a duration string between now and the given timestamp. Example `{{since build.started}}`
